# Lita Sales Analysis 

### Table of content 

- [project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Data Sources](#data-sources)
- [Tools Used](#tools-used)
- [Data Cleaning and Preparation](#data-cleaning-and-preparation)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)

### Project Overview 
---

This project focuses on analyzing the sales performance of a retail store. By exploring the sales data, it aim to uncover key insights, including identifying top-selling products, evaluating regional performance, and analyzing monthly sales trends. The findings will provide valuable information for strategic decision-making and optimizing sales strategies.

### Data sources 
---

Sales data:The primary dataset used  for this analysis is "LITA Salesdata.Csv" file, containing detailed information about each sale made by the company. 

### Tools used 
---

- Excel - Data cleaning and Analysis [*Download here*](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ng/)
- Sql Server - Data Analysis [Download here] (
- Powerbi - Creating Reports - [Download here] (

  ### Data cleaning and Preparation
---
  In the initial data preparation phase, we performed the following task:
  1. Data loading/Inspection
  2. Delete duplicate data
  3. checked for missing values
  4. check for null values 

  ### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
  EDA invloved exploring the sales data to answer key questions, such as:

  
  -  Total sales for each product
  - The highest selling product 
  - what is the number of sales transaction in each region
  - Find the top 5 customers by total purchase amount
  - Product with no sales in the last quarter
  - The percentage of total sales conributed by each region
  - The monthly sales total for the current year.

 ### Data Analysis
 ---
 - Total sales: To get a well detailed insight to the over all sales, we had to get a column for the revenue by multiplying the quantity by unitprice. which will give us an oversight of how much was generated by the company in the given time. Formula used: =product(number1,[number2])
- Top performing product: products were analyzed to know our best selling products, regions that pulled the best sales, Months that had the most revenue. This analyzes was done with pivot table by summarising our data.
- Metrics: we calculated metrics such as average sales per each product.
 

 
  
